Andrew Hauser, the Reserve Bank's deputy governor, has defended the RBA's practice of holding private off-the-record briefings with Australia's private financial institutions.

It follows a recent report in the Australian Financial Review that Westpac was blacklisted by the RBA last year after details of an off-the-record briefing between the bank and RBA officials were leaked.

The private briefing in mid-2023 involved then-deputy governor Michele Bullock and Westpac economists, traders and clients, and after one of the attendees leaked what was said in the briefing, Westpac was banned from having similar briefings for 12 months, according to the AFR.

It was the third time in the past 18 months that the RBA has punished a financial institution for breaching rules surrounding off-the-record briefings.

Lebanon’s prime minister at the time of its last war with Israel in 2006 has told the BBC his country has been abandoned by the international community.

Fouad Siniora said it was unacceptable to leave Lebanon to fall, and there was a lack of initiative when it came to trying to restore peace.

"We are now in a very difficult situation that requires real effort locally, as well on the Arab side and internationally.

"You can push things - sometimes to the brink of falling - in a major catastrophe without really realising what it means later on.

"It's happening at a time when the American administration is so busy with the elections.

"And we are unable to elect a president, because some groups in the country, particularly Hezbollah, have been insisting that they want a president that will not stab that group in the back," Siniora said.

The last war between Lebanon and Israel, nearly 20 years ago, began when Hezbollah fighters crossed the border and attacked Israeli soldiers. Two were kidnapped and three were killed, sparking a month-long conflict.

In the days that followed, Siniora made a public statement distancing the Lebanese government from what had happened.

He thinks the country’s current leaders have failed their people by not doing the same thing.

"This government did not do what my government did that day. My government was very clear and determined in stating that we were not aware, and we were not informed, of Hezbollah’s plan to cross the Blue Line on the border and to kidnap and kill Israeli soldiers.

"This time there hasn't been any move made by the Lebanese government. The advantage of what we did is that we created a distance between the Lebanese government and Lebanon on the one hand, and Hezbollah on the other," he explained.

Governor Ron DeSantis has warned that time for people to evacuate is quickly running out.

"We have to assume this is going to be a monster," DeSantis said at press conference on Monday afternoon, as officials warned of the storm's category five status.

Warnings over Hurricane Milton come just 10 days after Hurricane Helene - the deadliest mainland storm since Katrina in 2005 - pummelled the US south-east, killing at least 225 people. Hundreds more are missing.

At least 14 of those deaths were in Florida, where 51 of 67 counties are now under emergency warnings as Milton approaches.

"Unfortunately, some of the Helene victims are in the path of this storm," DeSantis said.

Ken Graham, director of the National Weather Service (NWS), said Milton had become a category five hurricane at record-breaking speed - with wind speeds intensifying by 80 knots (148km/h) over 24 hours.

"That's the third highest we have on record," he said.

Hurricanes are separated into five categories based on their wind speed.

Those reaching category three and higher are considered major hurricanes because of their potential for significant loss of life and damage, according to the NWS.

Hurricane Milton is expected to weaken on Tuesday as it travels over the Gulf of Mexico, dropping to a category three storm by the time it makes landfall in Florida's Tampa Bay on Wednesday evening or early on Thursday.

The National Hurricane Center warned torrential rain and flash-flooding can be expected across parts of Florida from late Monday.

It added that life-threatening storm surges and damaging winds along portions of Florida's west coast were possible from late Tuesday or early Wednesday.

Rainfall totals could reach localised highs of 15in (38cm), and coastal areas could see storm surges of 10-15ft (3-4.5m).

Hurricane Milton has weakened momentarily and is now a Category 4 storm, according to an update from the National Hurricane Center.

The storm has winds of 155 mph, down from 165 mph. It is located about 585 miles southwest of Tampa, Florida and is moving east at 9 mph, the hurricane center said.

While the storm has dipped into Category 4 status, it is expected to regain Category 5 strength Tuesday morning and maintain this strength through the day. It is expected to fluctuate in intensity before ultimately making landfall on Wednesday as a Category 3 storm.

More than 12 million people are under hurricane watches and warnings, and over 8 million people are under tropical storm watches.

“Hurricane conditions are expected in the warning area on the west coast of Florida as early as Wednesday afternoon, with tropical storm conditions beginning early Wednesday. Hurricane conditions could begin along the east coast of Florida in the watch areas on Wednesday night, with tropical storm conditions possible beginning Wednesday afternoon,” warns the hurricane center.

Rainfall of 5 to 10 inches with isolated totals up to 15 inches is possible across Florida through Thursday. The Florida Keys could see 4 to 7 inches of rainfall through Thursday as well. Nearly 20 million people are under flood watches across Florida.

Storm surge of 10 to 15 feet above ground is possible from the Anclote River to the north of Clearwater then south to Englewood, Florida, an area that includes Tampa Bay.

Residents of Sunset Beach, Florida, were finally able to access their homes by car on Monday, only to grab their belongings and evacuate again as Hurricane Milton approaches.

Sunset Beach, a neighborhood on Treasure Island, a barrier island west of St. Petersburg in the Gulf of Mexico, has only been accessible by foot since Helene passed through Florida, dumping feet of sand and debris over streets and inside homes. Authorities reopened the roads to vehicle traffic on Monday so residents could gather their possessions and reinforce their homes before Milton’s arrival.

“This is not a storm to take lightly. We all witnessed the devastating impact of Hurricane Helene as it passed 100 miles offshore — leaving four Treasure Island residents confirmed dead and overwhelming storm surge damage. Hurricane Milton is expected to bring even higher storm surges with extreme winds and flooding,” the city of Treasure Island said in an advisory.

At 7 p.m. Tuesday, access to the islands will be restricted. Once people leave, they will not be able to return until it is safe to do so, the city said.

Resident Sarah Lee McKinney relied on a golf cart shuttle to get her off the island Monday. She told CNN affiliate WFTS that she hopes others won’t try to ride out the storm like they did last time.

“I’m praying that God will give everybody the wisdom to get out and to remember that it’s only stuff and it can be replaced,” she told the affiliate.

Last year, the water regulator ordered firms to repay £114m as part of a similar move.

Ofwat said the results of its annual report on water company performance showed "disappointing results" and that money alone was not enough to address the problems facing the industry.

The regulator also warned that firms were "falling further behind on key targets", with nine out of 11 suppliers experiencing an increase in "pollution incidents" in 2023.

It comes as water bills in England and Wales are set to rise by an average of 21% over the next five years.

Ofwat's chief executive David Black said: "This year's performance report is stark evidence that money alone will not bring the sustained improvements that customers rightly expect.

"It is clear that companies need to change and that has to start with addressing issues of culture and leadership. Too often we hear that weather, third parties or external factors are blamed for shortcomings."

He added: "Companies must implement actions now to improve performance, be more dynamic, agile and on the front foot of issues. And not wait until the government or regulators tell them to act."

Ofwat's report also found that while there had been progress made on leaks, firms had only managed a 6% annual reduction – against a target of 16% by 2025.

Mr Johnson said he no longer believes Ms Gray was the "model of political impartiality and probity" she was presented to him as when he instructed her to carry out the partygate inquiry, given she went on to work as Sir Keir Starmer's chief of staff.

But asked if there was a "wry smile" on his face when he saw that she resigned from that role on Sunday, following weeks of negative briefings, he said "no", adding that the story is "trivial by comparison with the things that Labour is getting wrong".

"From pointlessly handing over the Chagos Islands, pointlessly pushing up taxes, they are making huge, huge mistakes right now."

Immigration going up after Brexit was 'taking back control'

On the failures of his own premiership, Mr Johnson admitted that he operated in a presidential way and did not look after his backbench MPs enough.

Al Pacino revealed on a podcast over the weekend that he almost died during a bout with Covid-19 — a near-death experience that left him pondering his mortality.

Pacino, 84, was plugging his memoir, “Sonny Boy.” on The New York Times’ podcast “The Interview” when he recounted how in 2020 he fell sick at his home from Covid and the situation quickly became dicey.

Pacino said that he had a fever and was dehydrated with a faint pulse and that he lost consciousness.

“I was sitting there at my house, and I was gone. Like that,” Pacino said, audibly snapping his fingers. “I didn’t have a pulse.

“In a matter of minutes, I guess, or whatever it took, they were there,” he added. “I had about six paramedics in that living room, and there were two doctors, and they had these outfits that looked like they were from outer space or something.”

After he regained consciousness, he recalled, “It was kind of shocking to open your eyes and see that. I opened my eyes and everybody was around me — the first time that’s ever happened.” He said medical personnel reacted by saying, “He’s back. He’s here.”

WASHINGTON (AP) — A court order that says hospitals cannot federally be required to provide pregnancy terminations when they violate a Texas abortion ban will stay for now, the Supreme Court said Monday.

The decision is another setback for opponents of Texas’ abortion ban, which for two years has withstood multiple legal challenges, including from women who had serious pregnancy complications and have been turned away by doctors.

It left Texas as the only state where the Biden administration is unable to enforce its interpretation of a federal law in an effort to ensure women still have access to emergency abortions when their health or life is at risk.

The justices did not detail their reasoning for keeping in place a lower court order, and there were no publicly noted dissents. Texas had asked the justices to leave the order in place while the Biden administration had asked the justices to throw it out.

Taylor Swift surpasses Rihanna as the world’s richest female musician, and Sabrina Carpenter heeds Taylor Swift’s advice. Keep watching for more!

Tetris Kelly:

Does Taylor make more money than Rihanna?! Forbes is reporting the billionaire has added even more money to her massive wealth and Sabrina Carpenter is taking her advice. We’re breaking it all down. After reportedly becoming a billionaire last year thanks to her juggernaut Eras Tour, Taylor Swift at 34 years old has surpassed Rihanna to become the world’s richest female musician with a net worth estimated at $1.6 billion. It noted that she’s the first musician to make the billionaire ranking primarily based on her songs and live performances. And when it comes to this level of fame, Sabrina Carpenter told CBS News Sunday Morning’s the non verbal cues she’s learned from the superstar. Will Sabrina join the billionaire girlies club one day? Now that would be sweet.

In the year after the U.S. Supreme Court dismantled the constitutional right to abortion in June 2022, more than 200 pregnant women faced criminal charges for conduct associated with their pregnancy, pregnancy loss or birth, according to a new report.

The report was produced by Pregnancy Justice, a nonprofit that advocates for the rights of pregnant people, including the right to abortion. Researchers in multiple states documented 210 cases of women being charged for pregnancy-related conduct in 12 states from June 24, 2022, to June 23, 2023, the first year after the U.S. Supreme Court eliminated the constitutional right to an abortion, throwing the issue to the states.

The majority of charges alleged substance use during pregnancy; in two-thirds of cases, it was the only allegation made against the defendant. Six states — Alabama, Mississippi, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Carolina and Texas — accounted for the majority of cases documented by researchers.

The new report utilizes improved data collection, making comparisons with previous versions difficult. But “what we found was even more of an acceleration in pregnancy criminalization as compared to before” the Supreme Court’s ruling, said Lourdes Rivera, president of Pregnancy Justice. Rivera said she thinks that in states with abortion bans or new restrictions, there is more scrutiny of pregnancy loss.

However, almost none of the prosecutions documented by researchers were brought under state abortion laws. Instead, researchers found that law enforcement most often charged pregnant women with crimes such as child neglect or endangerment, interpreting the definition of “child” to include a fetus. In doing so, authorities relied on a legal concept called fetal personhood — the idea that a fetus, embryo or fertilized egg has the same legal rights as a person who has been born.

“If we focus only on abortion laws, we miss a crucial part of the picture in the fact that pregnant individuals are being criminalized for allegedly endangering their own pregnancies, for pregnancy loss and, in some cases, for conduct related to abortion,” Rivera said. “What’s driving pregnancy criminalization is the expansion of fetal personhood.”

Charges of child abuse or endangerment carry stiffer penalties — higher fines and lengthier prison sentences — than the low-level drug charges the women likely would have faced had they not been pregnant.

“Pregnancy-related prosecutions don’t generally charge crimes that, on the face of the criminal statute, have anything whatsoever to do with pregnancy,” said Wendy Bach, a professor at the University of Tennessee College of Law and the report’s principal investigator. “Instead, using the idea of fetal personhood, or more specifically the idea that the fetus can be the victim of a crime perpetrated by the pregnant person, they use that theory to charge general crimes.”

SAINT-MARC, Haiti (AP) — Nearly 6,300 people have fled their homes in the aftermath of an attack in central Haiti by heavily armed gang members that killed at least 70 people, according to the U.N.’s migration agency.

Nearly 90% of the displaced are staying with relatives in host families, while 12% have found refuge in other sites including a school, the International Organization for Migration said in a report last week.

The attack in Pont-Sondé happened in the early hours of Thursday morning, and many left in the middle of the night.

Gang members “came in shooting and breaking into the houses to steal and burn. I just had time to grab my children and run in the dark,” said 60-year-old Sonise Mirano on Sunday, who was camping with hundreds of people in a park in the nearby coastal city of Saint-Marc.

Francis, 87, made the surprise announcement after commenting on the spiraling conflict in the Middle East and recalling the anniversary of the October 7 attacks on Israel.

Among the new list is the Archbishop of Tehran Dominique Mathieu, a Belgian missionary, with the pope’s decision to choose a cardinal in Iran likely part of Francis’ desire to push for dialogue with Islam and peace in the Middle East.

“I appeal to the international community to end the spiral of revenge and not to repeat attacks, like the one carried out by Iran a few days ago, which can plunge that region into an even bigger war,” the pope said before his announcement of new cardinals.

“All nations have the right to exist in peace and security, and their territories must not be attacked or invaded, sovereignty must be respected and guaranteed by dialogue and peace, not hatred and war.”

Francis also chose a Ukrainian bishop, Mykola Bychok, who at 44 will become the youngest cardinal: he is based in Australia where he ministers to members of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic community across Oceania.

Pope Francis pictured during a papal visit to the Royal Castle in Laeken - Laken, Brussels on Friday 27 September 2024. Head of the Catholic Church Pope Francis, born Jorge Mario Bergoglio, is visiting Belgium from 26 to 29 of September, to celebrate the 600th anniversary of the KU Leuven and UCLouvain universities. BELGA PHOTO DIRK WAEM (Photo by DIRK WAEM / BELGA MAG / Belga via AFP) (Photo by DIRK WAEM/BELGA MAG/AFP via Getty Images)
Related article
Pope vows to root out ‘scourge’ of sexual abuse after unusually frank plea from Belgian PM

During his pontificate, Francis has overhauled the composition of the body that will elect his successor, making it more representative of the worldwide church. He has thrown out the old, unwritten rulebook that bishops of certain dioceses (several of them in Italy) would automatically be made cardinals, and instead has given out “red hats” to the peripheries.

Also among the new cardinals announced by the pope on Sunday are bishops from Indonesia, Algeria, Japan and the Ivory Coast. The cardinals will be formally installed by Francis on December 8 with the archbishop of Toronto, Frank Leo, and a British theologian, friar Timothy Radcliffe, also among them.

Only cardinals under the age of 80 are allowed to vote in a papal election, although all cardinals, regardless of their age, can take part in the crucial pre-conclave meetings where the profile of a future pope is discussed. With his latest move, Francis has now chosen most of the men who will elect his successor.

At the time of the pope’s announcement, there were 122 cardinals under 80 and able to vote in a future conclave. Church law technically limits the number of such cardinals to 120, but previous popes have also gone over that number.

Cardinals are second only to the pope in the church hierarchy, hold senior positions in the Vatican and act as the pope’s main advisers. Francis has repeatedly told the cardinals that they must see their role as an opportunity to serve, rather than act like “princes.” Cardinals wear the red scarlet robes to symbolize their willingness to shed their blood for the Catholic faith.

In his speech, the pope also recalled the imminent anniversary of the October 7 attacks, calling for the “immediate release” of hostages in Gaza and lamenting that the Middle East has been “plunged into increasing suffering, with destructive military actions that continue to affect the Palestinian population.” He called for a “ceasefire on all fronts, including Lebanon.”

Appalachia native Dolly Parton said Friday she will donate $1 million for Hurricane Helene relief efforts.

Parton said the $1 million will go to the Mountain Ways Foundation, a nonprofit organization dedicated to providing immediate assistance to Hurricane Helene flood victims.

"These are special people here; they're my people," Parton said during an event announcing the donation at a Walmart in Newport, Tennessee. "I feel like all people are my people, but everyone here grew up in the mountains just like I did, so of course I have a close connection to them. I can't stand to see anyone hurting, so I wanted to do what I could to help after these terrible floods."

The country music icon was born in Locust Ridge, Tennessee to a poor family living deep in rural Appalachia — and Parton has often written about her childhood and the region in her songs, including hits such as "Smoky Mountain Memories" and "My Tennessee Mountain Home."

She was joined by Walmart U.S. CEO John Furner, who said the company, including Sam's Club and the Walmart Foundation, would donate a total of $10 million to hurricane relief efforts across the affected states. Parton's associated businesses, including Dollywood Parks & Resorts and The Dollywood Foundation, also announced they would match Parton's donation with another $1 million to the Mountain Ways Foundation.

At least 225 people have been confirmed dead after Helene swept through the Southeast, and officials say they expect the death toll to rise as recovery efforts continue. Satellite images showed large areas of North Carolina devastated by the storm. President Biden said Friday the work to rebuild the damage will cost "billions of dollars."

Parton said she hopes her donations will inspire others to donate and assist in the massive recovery efforts.

"I hope we can all be a little bit of light in the world for our friends, our neighbors — even strangers — during this dark time they are experiencing."

FRANKFORT, Ky. (AP) — The death toll from Hurricane Helene inched up to 227 on Saturday as the grim task of recovering bodies continued more than a week after the monster storm ravaged the Southeast and killed people in six states.

Helene came ashore Sept. 26 as a Category 4 hurricane and carved a wide swath of destruction as it moved northward from Florida, washing away homes, destroying roads and knocking out electricity and cellphone service for millions.

The number of deaths stood at 225 on Friday; two more were recorded in South Carolina the following day. It was still unclear how many people were unaccounted for or missing, and the toll could rise even higher.

Helene is the deadliest hurricane to hit the mainland U.S. since Katrina in 2005. About half the victims were in North Carolina, while dozens more were killed in Georgia and South Carolina.

Government and environmental agencies in Samoa are on alert after a New Zealand Navy ship caught fire and sank off the south coast of Upolu.

The HMNZS Manawanui - a specialist dive and hydrographic vessel - was conducting a reef survey when it hit the reef on Saturday night.

Seventy-five crew and passengers were taken off the vessel by liferafts and other boats which came to the rescue.

Samoa fire commissioner Tanuvasa Petone said the ship caught fire and sank on Sunday morning after a successful rescue. Three on board needed hospital treatment, he said.

"They're all on land. They are safe and sound apart from just a few individuals that… have some minor injuries, and so we treated them at the site and transferred to them to the hospital."

Petone said the conditions were "quite rough and windy".

Manu, a Samoan local who saw the HMNZS Manawanui sailing dangerously close to the reef as it ran aground, said he wondered why it was so close in the first place.

"He crashed on a bommie. A bommie is a piece of reef that is a lot deeper than all the other reefs, so the waves won't break unless there's a really big swell. We just had a really big swell, and there would have been residual sets," he said.

"He must have cruised over that reef thought nothing was coming, and then all of a sudden something came. Bang. I just don't understand what he was doing there.

"It bewilders me as to why he was there. I know it's a scientific research boat but he shouldn't have been that close to the reef. There's no reason to be that close to the reef, not with the amount of swells that was around."

He was worried about the environmental impacts of the ship hitting the reef, and hoped there was no oil spilling out of it.

"The reef was already getting destroyed from other things but I just hope the ship hasn't done anything," Manu added.

A dog saved her owner – who hurt his leg at home in rural Washington state, fell and couldn’t get up for hours – by walking to a road, sitting in the middle of it until a local sheriff’s deputy stopped, and leading the officer to him, according to authorities.

Gita’s ability to be “a good girl and true hero” in her 84-year-old owner’s moment of need after his injury at their cabin on 25 September led to her “saving his life that day”, the Stevens county sheriff’s office said in a statement.

“The loyalty and heroism of our furry friends never cease to amaze us,” the agency added.

Gita, 13, had sat down in the middle of a road when a Stevens county deputy first encountered her. The deputy tried to get the dog into his patrol cruiser so he could then look for her owner, but she wouldn’t get in.

The deputy subsequently left the dog where she was and checked homes within a mile of the area, but he could not find her owner, the sheriff’s office said. The sheriff’s office said the deputy feared something was wrong, so he went back to the dog – and found her lying down on the centerline of the road.

Gita at that point took off up a lightly traveled, unmarked path nearby when the deputy tried to get her off the roadway and away from potentially being hit by a motorist, the sheriff’s office said. The deputy followed Gita, who eventually led him to a small summer cabin.

The deputy soon heard an elderly man’s voice call out for help while on the ground a short distance from the cabin, according to the sheriff’s office. The man had medical conditions that required certain medications that he had not been able to take after falling and hurting his leg several hours earlier.

“He … may have had serious consequences if he had not been found,” the sheriff’s office said.

The sheriff’s office didn’t say how Gita’s owner may have been treated or where he may have been taken. But the agency described Gita as a “rescue dog and best friend of the gentleman in trouble”, and it explicitly credited her for “saving his life that day”.

Tales of dogs who get their owners life-saving aid from first responders fascinate the public.

There were approximately 30 mid-air close calls over North Carolina on Saturday, Sept. 28, as relief efforts ramped up in response to Hurricane Helene, a federal official briefed on the matter confirmed to CBS News Friday.

The close calls resulted from a spike in aircraft that included planes, helicopters and drones arriving in western North Carolina in the wake of Hurricane Helene. The federal official said the close calls did not involve commercial airline traffic.

The Federal Aviation Administration and the North Carolina Department of Transportation, say air traffic over Western North Carolina has increased by 300% due to relief efforts since the storm cleared.

Becca Gallas, director of the North Carolina Department of Transportation Division of Aviation, told CBS News by phone Friday that there has been a steep increase in government, search and rescue flights, as well as National Guard flights.

"When the images of the impact of Helene started to show up on TV screens, there was an outpouring of support and love from communities and people were trying to help get supplies on the ground very quickly, but there were safety issues with the air operations," Gallas said.

“I couldn’t make a family homeless for arbitrary reasons,” Ballard said of the county’s request to remove the RV. “The human impact exceeded any damage or nuisance that their continued living in the trailer was going to create.”

Instead, he started exploring options for adding a permitted home while the Martinez family continued to live in the RV — a process that he said cost tens of thousands of dollars in preparatory work that included engineering and geological studies.

Meanwhile, Ballard said the county started “getting impatient,” and in July 2019 they began imposing a $1,000 daily fine for the RV that was eventually reduced to $250 per day several months later. He estimates that he owes upwards of $120,000 in fines to the county and is now taking the matter to court, saying the county is infringing on his constitutional rights.

In a statement, Santa Clara County disputed the amount and said that Ballard has refused “to agree to any deadlines to abate the violations.” The county also said it has given him multiple extensions to apply for a permit and has “made multiple offers to significantly reduce the fines” if he removes the RV.

But Paul Avelar, an attorney with the Institute of Justice representing Ballard, said the county was imposing “excessive fines” in the first place, violating the Constitution and a recent U.S. Supreme Court ruling. He added that Ballard has “not refused to agree to any deadlines” and that his current work has been held up for more than a month as he waits for a response from the county over an amended permit.

“What you have is a family who has been fined now more than $120,000 for what is essentially a single violation — and while it’s a violation, it didn’t harm anyone,” Avelar said. “In fact, the Ballards were just trying to help their employee and friend with housing in an area that’s basically impossible for working-class people to afford housing.”

Matthew Lewis of the housing advocacy group California YIMBY said that even if Santa Clara County’s interpretation of the zoning law is correct, there’s a deeper question about whether it is “morally and ethically right to penalize people who are functionally farmers for providing farmworker housing on their property.”

His answer: no.

“These counties have just adapted to a full-NIMBY mindset, and that’s a real problem,” Lewis said. “They’re just so used to blocking people from having places to live. It’s almost like it’s baked into their DNA and they’ve got to get over it.”

LAS VEGAS (AP) — A Nevada Republican politician who ran unsuccessfully two years ago for state treasurer was found guilty Thursday of using funds raised for a statue honoring a slain police officer for personal costs, including plastic surgery.

A jury convicted Michele Fiore, a former Las Vegas city councilwoman and state lawmaker, of six counts of federal wire fraud and one count of conspiracy to commit wire fraud, KLAS-TV in Las Vegas reported. The weeklong trial in U.S. District Court in Nevada began last week.

Each count carries a possible penalty of 20 years in prison. Fiore, who has been suspended without pay from her current elected position as a justice of the peace in rural Pahrump, Nevada, will be sentenced Jan. 6. She will remain free while she awaits sentencing.

Her attorney, Michael Sanft, said Fiore will appeal the conviction.

Federal prosecutors said at trial that Fiore had raised more than $70,000 for the statue of a Las Vegas police officer shot and killed in 2014 in the line of duty, but instead spent the money on plastic surgery, rent and her daughter’s wedding.

“Michele Fiore used a tragedy to line her pockets,” federal prosecutor Dahoud Askar said.

The Biden administration’s sweeping student loan forgiveness plan was temporarily blocked again Thursday by a Missouri judge, just one day after a federal judge in Georgia said he would let a restraining order against the relief expire.

St-Louis-based U.S. District Judge Matthew Schelp, an appointee of Republican former President Donald Trump, issued the latest preliminary injunction against Biden’s relief plan.

As a result of the order, the U.S. Department of Education is again barred from forgiving people’s student loans until Schelp has a chance to rule on the case.

The latest order capped 24 hours during which federal student loan holders were subjected to judicial whiplash, as a lawsuit challenging Biden’s aid package, brought by seven GOP-led states, bounced from Georgia to Missouri courts.

The states bringing the suit — Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Missouri, North Dakota and Ohio — allege that the U.S. Department of Education’s new debt cancellation effort is illegal.

On Wednesday, U.S. District Judge Randal Hall in Georgia found that his state lacked standing to sue against the relief plan, and therefor his court could not be the venue for the case.

Hall directed the case to be transferred to Missouri, because the states claim that Biden’s plan would most harm student loan servicer Mohela, or the Missouri Higher Education Loan Authority.

When CNBC broke the news Thursday that the restraining order would lapse, consumer advocates and borrowers hoped that the Biden administration would try to move ahead quickly with its loan forgiveness plan for tens of millions of Americans. The Education Department has already prepared its loan servicers to start reducing and eliminating people’s debts.

However, Schelp cited this possibility as precisely the reason for delaying the administration while he considered the case.

“Allowing Defendants to eliminate the student loan debt at issue here would prevent this Court, the U.S. Court of Appeals, and the Supreme Court from reviewing this matter on the backend, allowing Defendants’ actions to evade review,” Schelp wrote.

Sam Dutcher had just finished running errands when the 18-year-old’s Honda Pilot suddenly began to accelerate, even though his foot wasn’t on the gas pedal. The brake wouldn’t work, he couldn’t shift into neutral, and before long, the runaway SUV was speeding into the western Minnesota countryside with no way to stop.

“I had the brake to the floor,” Dutcher said Thursday, but the SUV kept going faster and faster, eventually reaching 120 mph (193 kpm).

A last-ditch plan averted disaster that September evening — a trooper sped in front of the Honda and Dutcher was told to crash into the rear of his squad car, allowing it to ease safely to a stop moments before reaching a dangerous intersection.

“That was really all I could think of that was going to get him stopped in time,” Minnesota Trooper Zach Gruver said. “We kind of just ran out of time and distance. I really didn’t know of any other way.”

In a major move for older drivers, those who are age 70 and beyond will no longer be required to take a knowledge test to renew their licenses, the California Department of Motor Vehicles announced on Monday, Sept. 30.

All drivers had been required to take the knowledge test once their license expired after turning 70, which had been a policy but not a law, DMV Director Steve Gordon said in a press release. In recent years, they could have opted for an eLearning session instead, which also is no longer required.

“We are eliminating the written knowledge test for those without traffic violations on their record to improve customer service,” Gordon said in a statement. “If thousands fewer people need to visit the DMV, or can spend less time in an office, the people who need to take care of their business in one of our offices can be better served.”

An office visit is still required for a vision exam and an updated photo for those 70 and older who are renewing a driver’s license.

First-time drivers must still take a knowledge test, which for years had been called the written test. So will newcomers to California who want a license.

For all renewing motorists with poor driving records, there is a requirement to again take the test. At least some can opt for the DMV’s eLearning course, which the driver largely can’t fail.

All drivers are still required to take the knowledge test, or eLearning, if their records meet any of the following conditions:

Two or more accidents during the two years immediately preceding the expiration of the license
Three or more accidents during the three years immediately preceding the expiration
A DUI suspension during the two years immediately preceding the expiration date
Two or more violation points within the two years immediately preceding the expiration
Some older drivers with expiring licenses may have already received renewal notices that indicate a knowledge test is required but are eligible to not take it. In those cases, the test will be waived during in-office visits.

DMV officials are encouraging customers to start their applications online to lessen the amount of time they are in a DMV office.

Statistics show the crash rate decreases as drivers age, with the exception of drivers 75 and older who had the highest death rate involving a collision.

According to the National Safety Council, a nonprofit safety-advocacy organization, drivers who were 16- to 19-year-olds in 2022 represented 3.6% of licensed drivers but accounted for 9.1% of drivers in all crashes and 6.1% of drivers in fatal crashes.

Those stats include those at fault and those just involved in the collisions.

Motorists 65 to 74 accounted for 13.4% of licensed drivers while representing 7.1% of drivers in all crashes and 8.8% of drivers in fatal crashes, the council said.

OSLO, Norway (AP) — A beluga whale that lived off Norway’s coast and whose harness ignited speculation that it was a Russian spy, was not shot to death as claimed by animal rights groups but died of a bacterial infection, Norwegian police said Friday.

A final autopsy by Norway’s Veterinary Institute “concludes that the probable cause of death was bacterial infection -- possibly as a result of a wound in the mouth from a stuck stick,” Amund Preede Revheim, head of the North Sea and Environment section of the police in south-western Norway said.

“There have been no findings from the autopsy that indicate that the whale has been shot,” he stressed, adding that the autopsy had been “made difficult by the fact that many of the whale’s organs were very rotten.” As there was no indication of foul play, there was no reason to start a criminal investigation into its death, Preede Revheim said.

The decision from the Court of Justice of the European Union in Luxembourg is a victory for Austrian privacy activist Max Schrems, who has been a thorn in the side of Big Tech companies over their compliance with 27-nation bloc’s data privacy rules.

The EU court issued its ruling after Austria’s supreme court asked for guidance in Schrems’ case on how to apply the privacy rules, known as the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR.

Schrems had complained that Facebook had processed personal data including information about his sexual orientation to target him with online advertising, even though he had never disclosed on his account that he was gay. The only time he had publicly revealed this fact was during a panel discussion.

An escalating conflict in the Middle East has thrust the world's most important oil artery back into the global spotlight.

The Strait of Hormuz is widely recognized as a vital oil transit chokepoint. Situated between Iran and Oman, the waterway is a narrow but strategically important channel that links crude producers in the Middle East with key markets across the world.

In 2022, oil flow in the Strait of Hormuz averaged 21 million barrels per day, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration (EIA). That's the equivalent of about 21% of the global crude trade.

The inability of oil to traverse through a major chokepoint, even temporarily, can ratchet up global energy prices, raise shipping costs and create significant supply delays.

For many energy analysts, an event where there is a blockade or a significant disruption to flows via the Strait of Hormuz, is seen as a worst-case scenario — one that could prompt oil prices to climb far above $100 a barrel.

The agency is being stretched as it works with states to assess damage from Hurricane Helene and delivers meals, water, generators and other critical supplies. The storm struck Florida last week, then plowed through several states in the Southeast, flooding towns and killing more than 160 people.

Mayorkas was not specific about how much additional money the agency may need, but his remarks on Air Force One underscored concerns voiced by President Joe Biden and some lawmakers earlier this week that Congress may need to pass a supplemental spending bill this fall to help states with recovery efforts.

“We are meeting the immediate needs with the money that we have. We are expecting another hurricane hitting,” Mayorkas said. “FEMA does not have the funds to make it through the season.”

In the Southeast, roads were covered with cars, not feet of water. Bridges were still up. The lights were still on. The town of Chimney Rock – home to a popular North Carolina state park, breathtaking views and iconic rock formation – was still looking forward to visitors.

A drone view shows a damaged area, following the passing of Hurricane Helene, in Asheville, North Carolina, U.S., September 29, 2024. REUTERS/Marco Bello
Related article
People moved to Asheville to escape extreme weather. They forgot its tragic history.

A week later, 213 people are confirmed dead from Helene across six states, making Helene the deadliest hurricane to hit the United States mainland since Hurricane Katrina in 2005. That count includes the following deaths reported Thursday: 11 in North Carolina’s Buncombe County, where Asheville is situated (bringing that county’s overall toll to 72); eight in Georgia; two in South Carolina; and one in western Florida.

Of the 213 killed, 106 were in North Carolina and 41 were in South Carolina.

Those who survived are still in disbelief after the historic storm pummeled their homes and communities. Chimney Rock has been washed away, as have roads and bridges throughout the massive storm’s path.

Survivors are pitching in for each other, bringing food and water, helping dig out and cut up knocked down trees. All are hoping for small victories – like getting their cell phone service back or finding a gas station that is open – while facing a long recovery.

“This is not something that’s going to just last weeks,” Zeb Smathers, the mayor of Canton, told CNN Thursday. “We’re going to be having to advocate for these areas in western North Carolina for many, many years.”

More than 850,000 customers in seven states from Florida to West Virginia still were without power as of Thursday evening, according to PowerOutage.us. Most are in the Carolinas, where regional energy provider Duke Energy says “major portions of the power grid … were simply wiped away.”

Helene’s swift floodwaters took out so many power poles and electric lines, infrastructure needs to be rebuilt before power is restored, though the Federal Emergency Management Agency said Thursday it had helped restore power to more than 3.3 million homes.

Close to a thousand nutria have been hunted down in California this year alone, and wildlife officials are urging people to share reports of the invasive, 2.5-foot-long rodents in the Bay Area as recent sightings caught on camera show they’ve spread to Contra Costa County, posing a risk to a critical watershed.

Krysten Kellum, a spokesperson for the California Department of Fish and Wildlife’s Bay Delta Region, and Matthew Slattengren, Contra Costa County agriculture commissioner, both confirmed the discovery in the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta to SFGATE, as first reported by the San Francisco Chronicle. (The Chronicle and SFGATE are both owned by Hearst but have separate newsrooms.)

The wildly destructive rodents’ presence is cause for widespread concern. Now that they’ve made their way into the delta, which helps channel water to cities and farms across the entire state, it will be easier for them to disperse into other regions. Once there, they’ll continue tearing through wetland habitat, lead to significant losses in crops, and “weaken levees to the point of failure” as a result of their burrowing, Slattengren explained in an email.

Nutria reproduce at a prolific rate, giving birth to as many as 39 offspring in a little over a year. Each one can consume up to 25% of its body weight each day, Kellum of the CDFW said, “but they waste and destroy up to 10 times as much,” threatening rare, threatened and endangered species as well as native plants that rely on the marshland ecosystem eroded by their feeding habits. Nutria also pose a risk to humans, livestock and pets, Kellum said, carrying diseases such as tuberculosis and septicemia as well as tapeworms — a nematode that causes a rash known as “nutria itch” — and blood and liver flukes, which can lead to infection through exposure to contaminated water.

According to the U.S. Attorney's Office, 29 people named in the indictment were arrested Wednesday in a series of raids involving the Los Angeles Police Department and other agencies. Thirteen other defendants were already in custody, prosecutors said.

Prosecutors said the gang has been allied with the Aryan Brotherhood and Mexican Mafia, and its members use "Nazi tattoos, graffiti and iconography to indicate their violent white supremacy extremist ideology."

A total of 68 defendants are named in the 76-count indictment, which alleges offenses including conspiracy to violate the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, conspiracy to distribute controlled substances, distribution of controlled substances, bank fraud, conspiracy to commit bank fraud, aggravated identity theft, possession of a firearm in furtherance of a drug trafficking crime and unlawful possession of a firearm and ammunition by a felon.

The gang's "violent white-supremacist ideology and wide-ranging criminal activity pose a grave menace to our community," U.S. Attorney Martin Estrada said in a statement announcing the indictment. "By allegedly engaging in everything from drug-trafficking to firearms offenses to identity theft to COVID fraud, and through their alliance with a neo-Nazi prison gang, the (gang is) a destructive force. In prosecuting the members of the ... criminal organization, our office is carrying out its mission to protect the public from the most dangerous threats."

During the investigation, law enforcement seized "large quantities of illegal firearms, and dozens of pounds of fentanyl, methamphetamine, and heroin," prosecutors said.

The indictment alleges criminal activities dating back to at least December 2016, saying the gang used social media -- including a members-only Facebook group -- to share information and target people who violated the gang's rules. It alleges that "to generate revenue for the gang, its members trafficked narcotics, including fentanyl, heroin and methamphetamine," prosecutors said.

Close to a thousand nutria have been hunted down in California this year alone, and wildlife officials are urging people to share reports of the invasive, 2.5-foot-long rodents in the Bay Area as recent sightings caught on camera show they’ve spread to Contra Costa County, posing a risk to a critical watershed.

Krysten Kellum, a spokesperson for the California Department of Fish and Wildlife’s Bay Delta Region, and Matthew Slattengren, Contra Costa County agriculture commissioner, both confirmed the discovery in the Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta to SFGATE, as first reported by the San Francisco Chronicle. (The Chronicle and SFGATE are both owned by Hearst but have separate newsrooms.)

The wildly destructive rodents’ presence is cause for widespread concern. Now that they’ve made their way into the delta, which helps channel water to cities and farms across the entire state, it will be easier for them to disperse into other regions. Once there, they’ll continue tearing through wetland habitat, lead to significant losses in crops, and “weaken levees to the point of failure” as a result of their burrowing, Slattengren explained in an email.

Nutria reproduce at a prolific rate, giving birth to as many as 39 offspring in a little over a year. Each one can consume up to 25% of its body weight each day, Kellum of the CDFW said, “but they waste and destroy up to 10 times as much,” threatening rare, threatened and endangered species as well as native plants that rely on the marshland ecosystem eroded by their feeding habits. Nutria also pose a risk to humans, livestock and pets, Kellum said, carrying diseases such as tuberculosis and septicemia as well as tapeworms — a nematode that causes a rash known as “nutria itch” — and blood and liver flukes, which can lead to infection through exposure to contaminated water.

More and more social media users are reporting ‘panic buying’ of toilet paper and other goods across the US as news of the port strike spreads.

Many shipping ports across the US are closed while 45,000 dockworkers are on strike - with no resolution in sight. That has led some to snatch up various goods at their grocery stores - even when it might not be necessary.

Empty shelves are now springing up in places such as Virginia, New Jersey and Arizona as people rush to buy goods. One of the most purchased items is toilet paper, and it brings back memories of panic buying during the pandemic.

“People are panicking over this port workers strike. I’m about to leave the country, so I refuse to buy things I won’t use for a while, but jeez, at least there was toilet paper,” @TheLizVariant wrote on X.

“Seems people are losing their minds over toilet paper again. Local Walmart has been gutted. Nary a roll to be found,” another user wrote.

The UK has announced it is giving up sovereignty of a remote but strategically important cluster of islands in the Indian Ocean after more than half a century.

The deal – reached after years of negotiations - will see the UK hand over the Chagos Islands to Mauritius in a historic move.

This includes the tropical atoll of Diego Garcia, used by the US government as a military base for its navy ships and long-range bomber aircraft.

The announcement, made in a joint statement by the UK and Mauritian Prime Ministers, ends decades of often fractious negotiations between the two countries.

The US-UK base will remain on Diego Garcia – a key factor enabling the deal to go forward at a time of growing geopolitical rivalries in the region between Western countries, India, and China.

The BBC visits the secretive Chagos Islands military base
UN says UK military island not suitable for stranded migrants
UK commitment to Falklands 'unwavering' despite Chagos deal
The deal is still subject to finalisation of a treaty, but both sides have promised to complete it as quickly as possible.

"This is a seminal moment in our relationship and a demonstration of our enduring commitment to the peaceful resolution of disputes and the rule of law," the statement from UK Prime Minister Keir Starmer and Mauritius Prime Minister Pravind Jugnauth read.

The leaders also said they were committed "to ensure the long-term, secure and effective operation of the existing base on Diego Garcia which plays a vital role in regional and global security".

The treaty will also "address wrongs of the past and demonstrate the commitment of both parties to support the welfare of Chagossians".

UK Foreign Secretary David Lammy said the benefits of the deal included closing "a potential illegal migration route".

Dozens of Sri Lankan Tamils have been held in a fenced camp on the island for three years as complex legal battles are waged over their fate.

It is unclear what the announcement will mean for them.

The UK will provide a package of financial support to Mauritius, including annual payments and infrastructure investment.

Mauritius will also be able to begin a programme of resettlement on the Chagos Islands, but not on Diego Garcia.

There, the UK will ensure operation of the military base for "an initial period" of 99 years.

US President Joe Biden welcomed the "historic agreement", saying it was a "clear demonstration that through diplomacy and partnership, countries can overcome long-standing historical challenges to reach peaceful and mutually beneficial outcomes".

He said it secured the future of a key military base which "plays a vital role in national, regional, and global security."

The Chagos islanders themselves – some in Mauritius and the Seychelles, but others living in Crawley in Sussex – do not speak with one voice on the fate of their homeland.

Some are determined to return to live on the isolated islands, some are more focused on their rights and status in the UK, while others argue that the archipelago’s status should not be resolved by outsiders.

Isabelle Charlot, speaking on BBC Radio 4's World At One programme, said the deal brought back hopes her family could return to her father's island "roots".

Plans for the Mauritius government to arrange resettlement would mean a "place that we can call home - where we will be free," she said.

But Frankie Bontemps, a second generation Chagossian in the UK, told the BBC that he felt "betrayed" and "angry" at the news because "Chagossians have never been involved" in the negotiations.

"We remain powerless and voiceless in determining our own future", he said, and called for the full inclusion of Chagossians in drafting the treaty.

A former Los Angeles police detective who killed a romantic rival and concealed the murder for more than two decades won’t be paroled, reversing an earlier decision that found she was suitable for release, a lawyer for the victim’s family said Wednesday.

In a statement, a spokesperson for the family of victim Sherri Rasmussen said Stephanie Lazarus' grant of parole was reversed after a 90-minute hearing before three commissioners from the California Parole Board.

Family lawyer John Taylor said Rasmussen's relatives were pleased with the decision.

“Lazarus had her parole time up front, evading arrest for 23 years after the murder,” Taylor said in a statement. “She has expressed no remorse for the cold-blooded execution of Sherri Rasmussen committed while she was an LAPD officer. It’s unfair to the family that she should now go free and enjoy her life while receiving her LAPD pension.”

A spokesperson for the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, the board’s parent agency, said a panel that was reviewing the earlier decision found "good cause" to rescind it. Lazarus will have a new parole hearing within 18 months of Nov. 13, 2023, when she was previously granted parole, spokesperson said.

A lawyer for Lazarus didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.

Rasmussen, 29, a nurse, was gunned down in her Los Angeles-area apartment on Feb. 24, 1986. Lazarus, a Los Angeles police art theft detective who was then an officer in her mid-20s, previously dated a man whom Rasmussen married.

The lead investigator in the case has said Lazarus entered Rasmussen’s condo unit, struck her in the head with a vase and shot her three times in the chest using a pillow as an improvised silencer. She then staged the killing to look like a robbery, the investigator, Greg Stearns, previously said at a parole hearing for Lazarus.

DNA left at the crime scene later linked Lazarus to the killing. She was arrested in 2009 and convicted of first-degree murder three years later, after having asserted her innocence at trial.

A new species of moth was found in a home in south Wales after travelling thousands of miles in a photographer's boot bag.

Two clearwing moths appear to have hitched a ride when they were larvae, travelling 4,500 miles from a tropical jungle in Guyana, South America, before ending up in Port Talbot.

Three months later, they were spotted on a windowsill in the winter by ecologist Daisy Cadet and her mother Ashleigh in what scientists have described as an "improbable event" that "defies rational explanation".

Through DNA analysis, the scientists confirmed the moths were not only a non-UK species, they were also previously unknown to science. The species has been named Carmenta brachyclados.

Daisy, 22, said: "It wasn't flying around at all - probably because the house was too cold at the time, and the other one next to it had already died.

"When I first saw them, I knew they were clearwings and assumed it was a UK species like the six-banded clearwing.

"For me, finding a new moth was exciting enough but at this point, I had no idea it was so unusual."

To find out more about the strange moths, Daisy decided to post photos on social media platform Instagram, and a follower got in touch to say it did not look like a known UK species.

Christoffel Johannes Stoman, 70, appeared at the Vredendal Magistrate's Court on Monday where he stands trial on two charges of attempted murder and a further charge of reckless and negligent driving.

Khwezi Beukes, six, had been walking with his mother at midday on Friday, September 20, when he reportedly stopped to pick up an orange that was on the ground before attempting to reach through a fence and grab another one that had also fallen.

A vehicle with a trailer attached then ploughed into them and ran over the six-year-old, the court heard. His mother Magdalene Jantijies screamed as the vehicle crushed her son's legs.

The farmer accused Beukes of stealing the oranges and ran him over as punishment, causing horrific injuries including two broken legs.

Israel is preparing to launch a ground attack in Lebanon imminently, but it is expected to be limited, an unnamed U.S. official told The Washington Post Monday, in a report which has been corroborated by other media outlets. The report comes as Defense Minister Yoav Gallant said that "the next phase will begin soon."

The companies have struggled to retain subscribers in the streaming era. As platforms like Netflix, Hulu and Amazon’s Prime Video have gained traction, peeling millions of subscribers away from pay TV with lower price tags and on-demand content, DirecTV and Dish have found it increasingly difficult to justify rising subscription costs, worsening already dramatic cord-cutting.

The companies said the “combination of DirecTV and Dish will benefit US video consumers by creating a more robust competitive force in a video industry dominated by streaming services owned by large tech companies and programmers.”

Under the deal, DirecTV will pay Dish’s owner, EchoStar, just $1 for Dish in exchange for assuming its billions of dollars in debt.

Private equity firm TPG, meanwhile, will acquire AT&T’s remaining 70% stake in DirecTV. The move comes nine years after AT&T purchased the company in 2015 only to sell a 30% stake to TPG in 2021, a DirecTV spokesperson told CNN.

The deal still hinges on Dish bondholders agreeing on net debt lower than $1.56 billion, which a DirecTV spokesperson said the company will look to secure in the coming weeks. Bondholders can accept a lower percentage, take a slightly higher percentage today, or wait it out, which risks Dish ending up in bankruptcy. Dish shared an exchange offering in a press release on Monday.

Dish currently has a $2 billion debt maturity coming up on November 23. To secure funding through a shared revenue stream, TPG and DirecTV will provide Dish with a $10 billion loan that will allow the company to pay off its maturity on November 24.

The agreement provides DirecTV and Dish with greater scale, a DirecTV spokesperson told CNN. From an investment perspective, the combined entity offers a more reliable revenue stream to invest back into products and services, a positive for programmers like Disney. It will also allow the new entity, as a video company, to better work with programmers to achieve skinnier packages and bundles.

The newly merged DirecTV-Dish entity will continue to support the Dish brand for the foreseeable future, the DirecTV spokesperson said. DirecTV does not currently have plans to make changes to the existing Dish or Sling TV brands, meaning that current Dish customers should not be concerned about being forced over to DirecTV.

If they combine, the new service would have about 20 million subscribers with DirecTV accounting for over 11 million of that number. Yet this figure pales compared to DirecTV’s 20.3 million peak TV subscriber base in 2015 when AT&T bought a majority stake in the company.

DirecTV was founded by Hughes Electronics in 1994. AT&T bought the company in 2015 and sold part of the company to private equity firm TPG in 2021.

Dish Network is a subsidiary of EchoStar Corporation (SATS), which also owns Sling TV and rights to wireless spectrum used for cell phone communications. Shares of EchoStar slumped by more than 10% in morning trading.